---
layout: post
title: "An Updated Blog"
date: 2014-03-24 12:00
comments: true
categories: Blog
summary: "The blog is being updated again. This time its all new."
---

For a while now I have been using an [OctoPress] blog hosted using the [GitHub Pages] system, it was a nice a blog but I missed the ability to edit the posts on site. I do prefer writing in markdown and editing the files directly wasn't an issue for me but I longed for the ability to edit the posts without having to re-run the rake task on my laptop to generate and commit the site.

The challenge I set myself with this blog was to _use only jekyll_ __AND__ _not use any plugins_ but come out of the process with a decent blog that I am happy with.

The no plugins side of this comes from the fact that I want my site to be build-able from source by [GitHub Pages] which uses the `--safe` option in jekyll to ignore any plugins.

## Use only Jekyll

This was a much nicer experience than trying to theme [OctoPress]. I found that [OctoPress] suffered from _split-the-layout-into-as-many-files-as-we-can_ syndrome as well as having loads of modules I wasn't using. I know that critising something for providing too much functionality is a bit weird but [OctoPress]'s USP is that it is for developers to design what ever blog they want and have all these easy to use features.

It was so easy to turn the layout sample I had created into a working [Jekyll] blog and fourtunatley it was just a case of copying the articles from the old `_posts` folder to the new one.

## Not use any plugins

This means no _ruby_ at all! The `--safe` option that GitHub uses prevents any ruby code not in jekyll from running, this is completely understandable and just something I will have to live with.

Plugins do make your life easier but I don't plan on doing anything too extreme here and it is possible to make Jekyll create a json file of all your posts which opens up lots of possibilities using javascript.

## Why have the site generated by GitHub Pages?

[OctoPress] gets around the `--safe` issue by generating the site on your local machine and commiting that to GitHub so that no generation is needed. I wanted my site (or more specifically my posts) to exist in their raw format in the repository. This would mean that I could use any of the web based editors to edit/create a new post in the source and have GitHub generate the updated site for me.

This leads me nicely into [OctoPad], a JS section for Jekyll that lets you login with your GitHub credentials and edit the posts directly! The idea here is that I edit the posts through a JS markdown editor where I get a preview and everything and then click save, the contents of the editor are then saved to a file in the GitHub repository and GitHub regenerates the site. Its not finished or particularly polished at the moment but it does work for the most part.

[OctoPress]: http://octopress.org/
[GitHub Pages]: http://pages.github.com/
[Jekyll]: http://jekyllrb.com
[OctoPad]: https://github.com/Arcath/OctoPad
