---
layout: post
title: "Jekyll Atom 1.0.0"
date: "2015-06-23"
categories: [Atom]
summary: A new version of Jekyll Atom
---

Version 1.0.0 of [Jekyll Atom] has just landed and it contains some changes to the way Atom interacts with Jekyll.

The big change is how your site is served in _development_. 0.x.x used `jekyll serve -w` as a child process which lead to many issues with the child process not quiting with Atom, not responding to kill signals or not launching at all.

1.0.0 gets around this by running `jekyll build` and then using [static-server](https://www.npmjs.com/package/static-server) to host the static site on the port you set in config.

It is possible to use `jekyll build -w` but that leaves us with the same problem as before, so taking a leaf out of [compile-watch]'s book we can call `jekyll-build` when any editor in your Atom window saves. This is slower than getting Jekyll to watch the folder but it is more reliable in the long run.

1.0.0 uses an array to define your `jekyll build` command to make life easier for those on Windows were the command could need to be `C:\Path\to\Ruby.exe, C:\Path\to\jekyll\bin\jekyll.rb, build`

Now that there is no child process there is no need to have a console to _attach_ stdout to so the Manager Page is gone, completely. 1.0.0 uses notifications to communicate with you, informing you when:

  - The server is running
  - The server has stopped
  - The build has begun
  - The build has finished
  - The build has failed, with the error

I have some ideas for improvements & new features that I will be looking at in the near future.

[compile-watch]: https://github.com/Arcath/compile-watch
[Jekyll Atom]: https://github.com/Arcath/jekyll-atom
